Update installation instructions for Patroni to use `edb-patroni` (#5656)
EnterpriseDB/docs: advocacy_docs/supported-open-source/patroni/installing_patroni.mdx

  - Patroni
---

EDB provides Patroni to customers via the `edb-patroni` package. This package provides Patroni itself and all its dependencies, so there is no need to install additional packages on the Postgres nodes.

Extra packages which no longer have to be installed separately are the following:

- python3-cdiff
- python3-psutil
- python3-psycopg2
- python3-ydiff
- python3-click
- python3-six
- python3-dateutil
- python3-prettytable
- python3-pyyaml
- python3-urllib3
- python3-etcd
- python3-dns
- python3-certifi

Packages are available for all subscribed customers with a valid EDB account under any entitlement (Community360, Standard, and Enterprise).

!!! Note
    The `edb-patroni` does not provide packages for the etcd server needed for the DCS cluster

> Once you have the EDB repository configured on all the nodesof the cluster, run the following commands depending on the Linux distribution you are using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the EDB repository configured on all the nodes of the cluster, run the following commands depending on the Linux distribution you are using.
```

### Debian/Ubuntu

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y edb-patroni
```

!!! Note
    On Debian and Ubuntu installations, if you've previously installed the Patroni package named `patroni` using the EDB repositories, `apt upgrade` will not replace this package with the `edb-patroni` package. Executing `apt install edb-patroni` will install `edb-patroni` as a replacement of `patroni`.

See [Quick start on Debian 11](debian11_quick_start/#4-patroni) for a more detailed configuration example.

### RHEL/CentOS

```bash
sudo dnf install -y edb-patroni
```

See [Quick start on RHEL8](rhel8_quick_start/#4-patroni) for a more detailed configuration example.

> We also support community packages provided via the PGDG repositories. Follow the [PGDG deb download instructions](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/debian/) to set up the `apt` repository, or the [PGDG rpm download instructions](https://yum.postgresql.org/) for the `yum` repository. Keep in mind that for PGDG rpm repositories you will need to configure Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux ([EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL)) and enable the `pgdg-extras` repository.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should add a different heading here for the notes?
I mean, it looks like it's part of the RedHat section, while the note is important both for Debian and RedHat based.

Something else that came to my mind: we are missing instructions for SLES in the docs.

Author: Maybe I should move it to the head of this section, before going into details on Debian and RHEL installations. Or create a PGDG section

- python3-prettytable
- python3-pyyaml
- python3-urllib3
- python3-etcd
- python3-dns
- python3-certifi

Packages are available for all subscribed customers with a valid EDB account under any entitlement (Community360, Standard, and Enterprise).

!!! Note
    The `edb-patroni` does not provide packages for the etcd server needed for the DCS cluster

Once you have the EDB repository configured on all the nodes of the cluster, run the following commands depending on the Linux distribution you are using.

### Debian/Ubuntu

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y edb-patroni
```

!!! Note
    On Debian and Ubuntu installations, if you've previously installed the Patroni package named `patroni` using the EDB repositories, `apt upgrade` will not replace this package with the `edb-patroni` package. Executing `apt install edb-patroni` will install `edb-patroni` as a replacement of `patroni`.

See [Quick start on Debian 11](debian11_quick_start/#4-patroni) for a more detailed configuration example.

### RHEL/CentOS

```bash
sudo dnf install -y edb-patroni
```

See [Quick start on RHEL8](rhel8_quick_start/#4-patroni) for a more detailed configuration example.

### Installing community packages

> We also support community packages provided via the PGDG repositories. Follow the [PGDG deb download instructions](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/debian/) to set up the `apt` repository, or the [PGDG rpm download instructions](https://yum.postgresql.org/) for the `yum` repository. Keep in mind that for PGDG rpm repositories you will need to configure Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux ([EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL)) and enable the `pgdg-extras` repository.

Reviewer: That's indeed the case, only `pgdg-common` for `python3-*`:

```console
[root@8a3b155f34e7 ~]# dnf install patroni
Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux 9 - x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                1.2 MB/s |  21 MB     00:17
Last metadata expiration check: 0:00:14 ago on Thu May 23 14:34:20 2024.
Dependencies resolved.
==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
 Package                                                            Architecture                                          Version                                                            Repository                                                  Size
==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
Installing:
 patroni                                                            noarch                                                3.3.0-1PGDG.rhel9                                                  pgdg-common                                                1.1 M
Installing dependencies:
 libpq5                                                             x86_64                                                16.2-42PGDG.rhel9                                                  pgdg-common                                                258 k
 python3-cdiff                                                      noarch                                                1.0-1.rhel9                                                        pgdg-common                                                 30 k
 python3-click                                                      noarch                                                8.0.3-1.el9                                                        epel                                                       174 k
 python3-idna                                                       noarch                                                2.10-7.el9                                                         baseos                                                      92 k
 python3-prettytable                                                noarch                                                0.7.2-27.el9                                                       appstream                                                   41 k
 python3-psutil                                                     x86_64                                                5.8.0-12.el9                                                       appstream                                                  205 k
 python3-psycopg2                                                   x86_64                                                2.9.9-1PGDG.rhel9                                                  pgdg-common                                                188 k
 python3-pysocks                                                    noarch                                                1.7.1-12.el9                                                       baseos                                                      34 k
 python3-pyyaml                                                     x86_64                                                5.4.1-6.el9                                                        baseos                                                     190 k
 python3-setuptools                                                 noarch                                                53.0.0-12.el9                                                      baseos                                                     839 k
 python3-urllib3                                                    noarch                                                1.26.5-5.el9                                                       baseos                                                     187 k
 python3-ydiff                                                      noarch                                                1.2-10.rhel9                                                       pgdg-common                                                 30 k

Transaction Summary
==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
Install  13 Packages
```

  - Patroni
---

EDB provides Patroni to customers via the `edb-patroni` package. This package provides Patroni itself and all its dependencies, so there is no need to install additional packages on the Postgres nodes.

> Extra packages which no longer have to be installed separately are the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the dependencies no longer have to be installed separately, there is no need to install the python3-cdiff, python3-psutil, python3-psycopg2, python3-ydiff, python3-click, python3-click, python3-six, python3-dateutil, python3-prettytable, python3-pyyaml, python3-urllib3, python3-etcd, python3-dns or python3-certifi packages.
```

Author: Wouldn't we need to also remove the list that comes later?

Reviewer 2: Yes, ah I see you've done that.
